readMe.md, before:


## Logging
Logging refers to the practice of recording events, messages, or data points generated by software applications and systems. These logs can include various types of information, such as:

    Error Messages: Details about errors and exceptions that occur.

    Access Logs: Records of who accessed what resources and when.

    Audit Logs: Records for compliance and security purposes

## Monitoring

Monitoring involves the continuous observation of a system to ensure it is operating correctly and efficiently. It includes tracking various metrics and performance indicators, such as:

    CPU Usage: Monitoring how much processing power is being used.

    Memory Usage: Tracking the amount of memory being utilized.

    Disk I/O: Observing read/write operations on storage devices.

    Space: Total amount of space available on the machine

    Network Traffic: Measuring data transfer rates and network activity.

    Application Performance: Monitoring response times, throughput, and error rates.

## Alerts

When there are logging/monitoring systems in place, you can put up alerts to be called/messaged/slacked/paged when 

    A system goes down

    CPU usage goes above a certain point

    Error count goes up


## Prometheus Logging 

<img width="1752" height="892" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-07 154419" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d06a75e5-c6a9-42d6-aea3-10401b5f30a7" />

## Prometheus Dashboards

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (293)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dce8f6d3-5302-4d61-aac5-b92bbd531944" />

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (294)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/41017664-27b8-4cc3-8c3e-af1d6d95e84f" />

## Grafana Dashboards

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (295)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6bc18240-2ba7-4c90-b3e0-5a8a1f2188bb" />

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (296)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/65109322-8911-4e88-bba3-31b0dfb4ad0c" />

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (297)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3fca932-28ae-42b3-a563-35b96fa89bf9" />

Commit message:

Types of metrics in prometheus

readMe.md, after:


## Logging
Logging refers to the practice of recording events, messages, or data points generated by software applications and systems. These logs can include various types of information, such as:

    Error Messages: Details about errors and exceptions that occur.

    Access Logs: Records of who accessed what resources and when.

    Audit Logs: Records for compliance and security purposes

## Monitoring

Monitoring involves the continuous observation of a system to ensure it is operating correctly and efficiently. It includes tracking various metrics and performance indicators, such as:

    CPU Usage: Monitoring how much processing power is being used.

    Memory Usage: Tracking the amount of memory being utilized.

    Disk I/O: Observing read/write operations on storage devices.

    Space: Total amount of space available on the machine

    Network Traffic: Measuring data transfer rates and network activity.

    Application Performance: Monitoring response times, throughput, and error rates.

## Alerts

When there are logging/monitoring systems in place, you can put up alerts to be called/messaged/slacked/paged when 

    A system goes down

    CPU usage goes above a certain point

    Error count goes up


## Types of metrics in Prometheus

## Counter

    A counter is a cumulative metric that only increases.

    Example: Counting the number of HTTP requests

## Gauge

    A gauge is a metric that can go up and down. It can be used to measure values that fluctuate, such as the current number of active users or the current memory usage.

    Example: Measuring the current memory usage

## Histogram

    A histogram samples observations (usually things like request durations or response sizes) and counts them in configurable buckets. It also provides a sum of all observed values.

    Example: Measuring the duration of HTTP requests

## Prometheus Logging 

<img width="1752" height="892" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-07 154419" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d06a75e5-c6a9-42d6-aea3-10401b5f30a7" />

## Prometheus Dashboards

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (293)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dce8f6d3-5302-4d61-aac5-b92bbd531944" />

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (294)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/41017664-27b8-4cc3-8c3e-af1d6d95e84f" />

## Grafana Dashboards

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (295)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6bc18240-2ba7-4c90-b3e0-5a8a1f2188bb" />

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (296)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/65109322-8911-4e88-bba3-31b0dfb4ad0c" />

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Screenshot (297)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3fca932-28ae-42b3-a563-35b96fa89bf9" />
